[Workflow] Updates for Go SDK (#3895)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/workflow/howto-author-workflow.md

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

<!--go-->

Define the workflow activities you'd like your workflow to perform. Activities are wrapped in the public `callActivityOptions` method, which implements the workflow activities. 

```go
type ActivityContext struct {
	ctx task.ActivityContext
}

func (wfac *ActivityContext) GetInput(v interface{}) error {
	return wfac.ctx.GetInput(&v)
}

func (wfac *ActivityContext) Context() context.Context {
	return wfac.ctx.Context()
}

type callActivityOption func(*callActivityOptions) error

type callActivityOptions struct {
	rawInput *wrapperspb.StringValue
}

// ActivityInput is an option to pass a JSON-serializable input
func ActivityInput(input any) callActivityOption {
	return func(opts *callActivityOptions) error {
		data, err := marshalData(input)
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}
		opts.rawInput = wrapperspb.String(string(data))
		return nil
	}
}

// ActivityRawInput is an option to pass a byte slice as an input
func ActivityRawInput(input string) callActivityOption {
	return func(opts *callActivityOptions) error {
		opts.rawInput = wrapperspb.String(input)
		return nil
	}
}

> ```

Reviewer: I've removed the activity definitions and methods related to them.
```suggestion
Define each workflow activity you'd like your workflow to perform. The Activity input can be unmarshalled from the context with `ctx.GetInput`. Activities should be defined as taking a `ctx workflow.ActivityContext` parameter and returning an interface and error. 

```go
func TestActivity(ctx workflow.ActivityContext) (any, error) {
	var input int
	if err := ctx.GetInput(&input); err != nil {
		return "", err
	}
	
	// Do something here

	return "result", nil
}
```
```

> [See the Go SDK workflow activity example in context.](todo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[See the Go SDK workflow activity example in context.](https://github.com/dapr/go-sdk/tree/main/examples/workflow/README.md)
```

	if err != nil {
		return fmt.Errorf("failed to get workflow decorator: %v", err)
	}

	err = ww.tasks.AddOrchestratorN(name, wrappedOrchestration)
	return err
}

// Activity wrapper
func wrapActivity(a Activity) task.Activity {
	return func(ctx task.ActivityContext) (any, error) {
		aCtx := ActivityContext{ctx: ctx}

		return a(aCtx)
	}
}

// RegisterActivity adds an activity function to the registry
func (ww *WorkflowWorker) RegisterActivity(a Activity) error {
	wrappedActivity := wrapActivity(a)

	// get the function name for the passed activity
	name, err := getFunctionName(a)
	if err != nil {
		return fmt.Errorf("failed to get activity decorator: %v", err)
	}

	err = ww.tasks.AddActivityN(name, wrappedActivity)
	return err
}

// Start initialises a non-blocking worker to handle workflows and activities registered
// prior to this being called.
func (ww *WorkflowWorker) Start() error {
	ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
	ww.cancel = cancel
	if err := ww.client.StartWorkItemListener(ctx, ww.tasks); err != nil {
		return fmt.Errorf("failed to start work stream: %v", err)
	}
	log.Println("work item listener started")
	return nil
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define your workflow function with the parameter `ctx *workflow.WorkflowContext` and return any and error. Invoke your defined activities from within your workflow.

```go
func TestWorkflow(ctx *workflow.WorkflowContext) (any, error) {
	var input int
	if err := ctx.GetInput(&input); err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}
	var output string
	if err := ctx.CallActivity(TestActivity, workflow.ActivityInput(input)).Await(&output); err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}

	if err := ctx.WaitForExternalEvent("testEvent", time.Second*60).Await(&output); err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}
	
	if err := ctx.CreateTimer(time.Second).Await(nil); err != nil {
		return nil, nil
	}

	return output, nil
}
```
```

> [See the Go SDK workflow in context.](todo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[See the Go SDK workflow in context.](https://github.com/dapr/go-sdk/tree/main/examples/workflow/README.md)
```

{{% /codetab %}}

{{% codetab %}}

<!--go-->

[As in the following example](https://github.com/dapr/go-sdk/tree/main/examples/workflow/README.md), a hello-world application using the Go SDK and Dapr Workflow would include:

- A Go package called `client` to receive the Go SDK client capabilities.

> - An import of `workflow`

Reviewer 2: Do you mean to say import? Looks like this is copied from Java? You mean a Go package yes?

> - The `DemoWorkflow` class which extends `Workflow`

Reviewer 2: Does not extend Workflow (its go) and DemoWorkflow should be TestWorkflow.
(Pity that all the language samples are very different - Hello World, order processing, Demo and Test :-( )

		InstanceID:        "a7a4168d-3a1c-41da-8a4f-e7f6d9c718d9",
		WorkflowComponent: workflowComponent,
	})
	if err == nil || respGet != nil {
		log.Fatalf("failed to purge workflow: %v", err)
	}

	fmt.Println("workflow purged")

	// WFClient
	// TODO: Expand client validation

	stage = 0
	fmt.Println("workflow client test")

	wfClient, err := workflow.NewClient()
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("[wfclient] faield to initialize: %v", err)
	}

	id, err := wfClient.ScheduleNewWorkflow(ctx, "TestWorkflow", workflow.WithInstanceID("a7a4168d-3a1c-41da-8a4f-e7f6d9c718d9"), workflow.WithInput(1))
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("[wfclient] failed to start workflow: %v", err)
	}

	fmt.Printf("[wfclient] started workflow with id: %s\n", id)

	metadata, err := wfClient.FetchWorkflowMetadata(ctx, id)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("[wfclient] failed to get worfklow: %v", err)
	}

	fmt.Printf("[wfclient] workflow status: %v\n", metadata.RuntimeStatus.String())

	if stage != 1 {
		log.Fatalf("Workflow assertion failed while validating the wfclient. Stage 1 expected, current: %d", stage)
	}

	fmt.Printf("[wfclient] stage: %d\n", stage)

> 	// TODO: WaitForWorkflowStart

Reviewer 2: Do you really want to keep these TODOs here? I would consider removing/rewording them.
